---
layout: post
title: "Week Two"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt:
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-09-05T15:39:55-04:00
modified: 2016-09-05T14:19:19-04:00
---
### What did I do this past week?
This was the first week that emphasized on working on the first project, collatz. Therefore, I spent most of my hours for SWE working on setting up the work environment and thinking about my caching system in collatz. I also set up oh-my-zsh on the school computers!

### What's in my way?
Surely not difficult, but working on building the hard coded cache just turns me away from the project. I've already done what I needed to and going a little further to shave off one second, although incredible, wasn't my priority at the moment.

### What will I do next week?
I'll try to follow up on Downing's readings or just read the book. This might also be a bad time to pick up Civilization 5.


## The Experience in the Classroom
This week, the week before the first project was due, gave us even more time to think about the assignment and Downing took time out of his class to make sure we would be ready to tackle the assignment. We made a comprehensive list of steps to take as broad as downloading the files and running tests. Even though I had thought that I've done a majority of what I should have, I did miss a few obvious steps that I overlooked. It was also nice to have it on Piazza to follow along with. 

In class, we also took quizzes that were related to the project as well. For example, there were two equations that can be added as minor optimizations for collatz. One reduced the number of operations, shaving an additional cycle for odd numbers, whereas the other can reduce the range necessary to check. Although both beneficial, Downing made it clear that memoization is still required to make the program execute quick enough to satisfy sphere. 

Overall, this was calm week leading into Labor Day Weekend, but that's just my opinion.

## Tip of the Week
Up above, I mentioned switching to [oh-my-zsh]. For those who prefer work in the terminal, I recommend you choosing or messing with your default shell. Zsh offers minor optimizations and such over bash, but I mostly made the switch for oh-my-zsh, the community driven framework for zsh configurations. With this, plugins and aesthetic changes became as easy as changing on line in the .zshrc file. In addition to this, installing NERDTree for vim users and adding other key aliases makes working the terminal slightly more productive. Still, if you spend as much time as me in the terminal, it's likely a worthy investment.

[oh-my-zsh]: https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh
