---
layout: post
title: "Week Six"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt:
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-10-01T15:39:55-04:00
modified: 2016-10-01T14:19:19-04:00
---
### What did I do this past week?
After the rough week of networking, this week's tension and stress compares much less to last week. I've mostly been doing light reads on blogs and articles from reddit. An example includes [How CodinGame survived a Reddit Hug of Death], which I thought was interesting to read as a blog. There's also two midterms aligned up for me next week so I reviewed a little bit for those.

[How CodinGame survived a Reddit Hug of Death]: https://www.codingame.com/blog/en/2016/09/how-did-codingame-survive-reddit-hug-of.html?utm_term=fr&utm_source=Digest&utm_medium=blog&utm_content=view&utm_campaign=Notifications

### What's in my way?
I guess if the main objective is to study for the exam, my habitual procrastination is my main roadblock. I've attemped to deal with this for several years now and it seems that all my approaches have only been short-term at best. I have periods of time when my productivity is on point, but it seems majority of the time it's not.

### What will I do next week?
I'll be studying for the SWE Midterm. I have an Algo exam lined up for the same day as well, so I should study both pseudo-parallel.

## The Experience in the Classroom
The classroom this week felt relatively tame for me. We learned of a powerful tool in Python that may be unintuitive to some. Since I've been exposed to generators and list comprehensions before, that must have been why this week's material felt more like review. I'm sure this reaction varies among different people. For others, they may be discovering this for the first time and may feel something entirely different this week. For me, this was a chill week with the exception of Downing's quizzes. They can be quite tricky! I have to note to self that there is usually a very important small detail to notice. A strategy that I'm beginning to follow is to view the answers first and judging the possibilities of each instead of attempting to walk through the provided code. These mistakes just feel so terrible. It's good be wrong for educational purposes, but I sure hope I could reach a point where I can not constantly fall into this silly traps.

## Tip of the Week
Many students during this time of year burn themselves out with school projects and studying for midterms. I feel that there needs to be a reminder that it is okay to relax every now and then. A body that's been strained, both physically and mentally, needs appropriate time to recover in order to perform better when the time matters. The critical thing is to find the balance between work and rest since going too far in either direction is obviously not as good. Simply put, don't exhaust yourself too much and don't slack off!

