---
layout: post
title: "Week Four"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt:
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-09-17T15:39:55-04:00
modified: 2016-09-17T14:19:19-04:00
---
### What did I do this past week?
Turning in and completing the first assignment, collatz. The programming for it wasn't too difficult. The real stress for me was preparing the files to turn in. There's something about just turning in a json file and leaving the rest in github that's different from turning in a zip file. 

### What's in my way?
Simply, inexperience. There were unexpected problems that I thought were only problems because they caught me off guard. There were many firsts because of this, but preparing for future projects should definitely be easier now. From now on we're likely to focus more on the projects themselves. Downing made this assignment relatively easy to prepare us future assignments.

### What will I do next week?
Project 2 should be on its way and I'm looking forward to what Downing has prepped for us. At the same time, I also need to update my resume and prepare myself for interviews if I intend to stand out at the CNS career fair.

## The Experience in the Classroom
The week was shortened by Labor Day but it seemed to have no affect on the tempo of the class. We got more time to relax or read up on the papers he posted for us and class resumed quite naturally. This week we learned more about the inner workings of Python and I felt it was great to know. His teaching style of calling out individuals may seem like stress to some but I've begun to appreciate it. It keeps us engaged and mentally active. If necessary, he shows us how can we logically reason out a solution. This relates to the old, "Give a man a fish - Teach a man to fish" story, where he doesn't explicitly tell us how Python behaves, but rather shows us how it would and predict its actions.

I feel like Downing has encouraged us to participate more in class and that he's trying to draw away from the standard lecture style of speaking to the class while they take notes. The real experience of the class is that interactivity with the professor, whether you're called on or not. He posts material written in class online so everything is accessible. It's about what happened in the class (that you definitely do not want to skip on) and the memories you make with it.

## Tip of the Week
Do not skip class! It really goes without saying that you should not skip any college course you take, but Downing's teaching style has serious consequences for its skippers. You would miss the quizzes at the beginning of every class, sure, but you would also miss the dialogue that occurs in each class. All his texts are posted online, but the real treasure floats in the air, being the interaction and atmosphere of the class. It's like a live concert to a CD Album, plus some.
