---
layout: post
title: "Week Five"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt:
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-09-25T15:39:55-04:00
modified: 2016-09-36T14:19:19-04:00
---
### What did I do this past week?
Like some sort of pre-determined script, the week leading up to the deadline of the project is when the majority of project is completed. I feel as though some sort of joke, the Pareto Principle applies to my productivity as well. Something like 80% of the project is completed in 20% of the time provided. I also had to finally smother my illness.

### What's in my way?
Nature, yo. Either I was unlucky with the germs got passed to me or my body, for some reason, was weak to it. I coughed for roughly two weeks! How dearly I've missed being healthy. I even had to skip the career fair to focus on recovery and not risk any chance of receding my health.

### What will I do next week?
I have a lot of work to catch up on due to my continuous absence from ... everywhere. My specific plan for SWE has to be thinking about next project. This includes finding a group and what kind of site I want to build. The rubric and details for project #3 has not yet been posted, but I have a hunch.

## The Experience in the Classroom
This week has been a intersection point for many classes and events. Like many good professors, Downing acknowledges that students also have plenty of things going on with their lives. The pace does not change, but it feels fair. It's a nice balance.

A nice thing that happened in the classrooms involves another visitor. This time, a representative from NASA JPL came to discuss product design and show us some of the work he's done. This was a great experience for me since I wanted to speak with JPL but wasn't in a good condition for the career fair. He reminded us to be mindful of our work while in school and especially when we graduate. As usual, the talk was nice. It was rather strange to have these talks back to back, but Downing said it couldn't be helped.

## Tip of the Week
Choosing which OS to work in is one of the choices computer scientists actively make, but there are plenty of tricks available to work around this. Few examples that I'm aware of include partitioning the hard drive or running virtual machines. There's even software like Cygwin, which allows Windows users to run a small bash shell. Windows 10 now has magic that allows them to run bash without Cygwin: [bash on Ubuntu on Windows 10]. I've been exploring a lot of options, and my tip is simpyl for others to venture out as well. I've enjoyed finding small optimizations to work and I wonder how much attention other programmers put to this. Find the combo that works for you!

[bash on Ubuntu on Windows 10]: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/commandline/wsl/install_guide
