---
layout: post
title: "Week Nine"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt:
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-10-23T15:39:55-04:00
---
### What did I do this past week?
This week was all about finishing Phase 1 for the IDB project. Thankfully everything turned out quite nicely! Visit us [here]. I worked on the back-end and wrote some things here and there. That's what our Wiki and About pages are for.

[here]: http://interswellar.me

### What's in my way?
I would say that my lack of experience is slowing me down but everyone starts with nothing at some point. Might as well be now and start learning though! I am addressing this issue right now by attending HackTX 2016 and doing further outside readings.

### What will I do next week?
I will have another midterm next week. I'll have to study hard for this one too. Another fun fact is that my A Capella group, Deep Treble, will be performing on The 40 this coming Wednesday.

## The Experience in the Classroom
Stress levels going slightly high as the deadline for the project approaches. Still, class marches on. I thought it was rather interesting how no one asked project specific questions in class. Instead, we focused more on learning Python and certain implementations, and project questions are reserved for after class or Piazza. I suppose since every group works at their own pace and have varying progress those kinds of question wouldn't really benefit the class. 

We did learn about relations and such that is vaguely related to our project, but like I said, it was nothing explicit or specific. This kind of knowledge is general and would benefit us outside of the project. So instead of learning about the world through our project, we are learning about the world and building the project from that knowledge.

## Tip of the Week
Go to Hackathons and get that experience in you! I'm typing this blog while at HackTX! It's a great event that assembles a bunch of people to code. The best part is that many of these events are free. You practically lose nothing except energy and sleep. We lose that kind of stuff everyday so that's a good trade right?

