---
layout: post
title: "Week One"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt:
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-08-28T15:39:55-04:00
modified: 2016-08-28T14:19:19-04:00
---
### What did I do this past week?
Since it's the fist week of school, I mostly looked at my class syllabi and looked at where I can adjust my schedule. I also read up on preparing Docker on my personal computer.

### What's in my way?
I would say my inexperience and lack of exposure to certain software has been the largest obstacle this week. I'm slogging my way through setting this blog up as we speak!

### What will I do next week?
I intend to setup Docker and read up on the other software we'll be using this semester. Downing has stressed the importance of being proactive. It gives us the impression that most of the learning and training will occur outside the classroom. The curriculum is more of a guide providing vague directions which we must later traverse with our own two feet.

## The Experience in the Classroom
This was my first time meeting the man, the myth, and the legend that is Professor Downing. He began the first day of class by running down the syllabus and tools we are to familiarize ourselves with. His speech is very clear, well structured, and easy to understand. This, combined with his unique style of lecturing with demos and class participation, makes his class unique and quite interesting. I've heard of many people disliking his style of randomly selecting a student to explain excerpts of code and I'm sure there will be a day when I will feel shamed out of this world. Despite this, I convinced myself to agree with it with this argument: The enhanced embarrassment will make the memory stronger for you, therefore making you remember the moment better, and therefore improving learning. There's also the side effect of studying outside of class to avoid such disastrous outcomes in the first place. This may be rough, but calm seas have never made a strong sailor! This is a unique experience and I encourage all students to try out this method a few times.

## Tip of the Week
Recently I found a lovely subreddit called [/r/programming]. For those unfamiliar with [reddit], consider it the "front-page of the Internet" where subreddits are smaller categories/communities dedicated to a topic. Here, /r/programming focuses on news and discusses computer programming. A good read I found recently describes how [GNU Grep is so fast] written by the original author of grep. From there, I read about the Boyer-Moore algorithm, and then further into more string-matching algorithms!

[/r/programming]: https://reddit.com/r/programming
[reddit]: https://reddit.com
[GNU Grep is so fast]: https://lists.freebsd.org/pipermail/freebsd-current/2010-August/019310.html
