---
layout: post
title: "Week Ten"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt:
tags:[Week Ten]
image:
feature:
date: 2016-10-30T15:39:55-04:00
---
### What did I do this past week?
This week felt all over the place. The alignment of projects and a performance on The 40 occupied my working half while plenty of student events readied me for the coming of Fall and Halloween. Not to mention, UTCS turned 50 on Friday!

### What's in my way?
I suppose the largest obstacle for me when faced with lots of opportunities to have fun is a sense of diligence and self-control. There's definitely a sense of momentum coming from having fun for a couple of consecutive days. Time to get back to work!

### What will I do next week?
With Week 11 Thursday being the deadline for Phase 2 of our project, I think it's rather clear that my attention should be directed towards the completion of that.

## The Experience in the Classroom
The experience in the classroom feels a little limited this week with only one lecture. An unfortunate thing to that is I had made the conscious decision to skip our lecture this week to fix up some relations I have with IBM. Whether or not missing just an hour of my life to prepare for a meeting was worth isn't for me to decide since it happened anyway. It did make reviewing whatever was covered during class a little difficult since I had to do much more experimentation than usual to fully grasp what was going on (Regex).

We had another guest speaker which are always a pleasure. The biggest event to happen was the UTCS 50th Anniversary, which lead to a computer science symposium and the 50fest. I understand the symposium had registration but I partially attended anyway. Additionally, the 50fest had some fun activities and snacks for everyone. The day was truly unique, inspiring, and entertaining! 


## Tip of the Week
When given the opportunity to attend rare talks, sometimes it's worth your time and effort to attend those talks. You'll never know what words you may hear or what things you may see. Each talk from a successful or inspiring figure has the potential to change the direction of your life and, if I may be bold enough to say, even society. It is still a thing of luck but the rewards can be a real game changer.

